It's 9:00 a.m. in Shanghai and Shenzhen.
You're watching the China Show. I'm Ivon
Man and I'm Averil Hong in Singapore.
We're counting down to the open of
markets in China. Our top stories, oil
drops while stocks rise as the US and
Iran edge towards a deal to reopen the
straight of Homus. Even as President
Trump says he won't rush into an
agreement, Chinese authorities launching
a crackdown on illegal crossborder
trading while scrutinizing firms and
funds linked to the AIdriven stock
rally. Also ahead, President Xinping
urges stronger inspections and safety
controls as China investigates a coal
mine explosion that killed 82 people and
injured hundreds. And Indonesia's vice
trade minister says a new commodity
export policy will be laid out soon as
investors remain worried about its
implications.
Well, April, looks to be a pretty lively
session here today despite some key
markets that have be shut including here
in Hong Kong, South Korea, you have the
US, UK, and parts of Europe. So,
certainly liquidity might be an issue
today. But just the prospect of possibly
hearing some sort of deal between the US
and Iran soon according to the president
is lifting risk sentiment. Oil is also
lower here this morning.
>> Yeah, take a look at how Brent and WTI
are fairing. Both below the 100 level.
WTI edging towards the 90 handle. We
have the dollar slipping as well, a
reversal from last week's performance.
To your point about this optimism of a
US Iran deal, even though based on
Iranian media, they sound a bit more
circumspect on the prospects of a deal.
We're also watching this week for the
Fed's preferred topline gauge of
inflation. We could see it marking its
biggest two-month acceleration since
2021 as Kevin Walsh takes over, of
course. And taking a look at how we're
shaping up in the rest of the
Asia-Pacific with as you say those key
markets shut. We are still seeing Japan
markets adding on its tech that is
fueling the continued extension of that
rally. Energy related stocks are on the
back foot. Tyax also opening well in the
green. taking a look at China futures as
well because aside from what we're
seeing in terms of the crackdown on
crossborder flows and trading for stocks
we are seeing deep sea sort of putting
in place these permanent discounts for
its flagship V4 pro model. O watching AI
computing related stocks as well. Uh
some of these coal related developments
following the deadliest mining accident
since uh the late 2000s and certainly
we're watching out for potentially what
we're seeing in coal futures. Energy is
also in the spotlight at this point.
Yeah, you are. We're showing you Coke
and Cole futures here at the moment,
which is uh spiking up uh against what
you know, you've been talking about this
tragedy that happened over the weekend.
Uh so we'll be tracking all that and
what this really means moving forward
here for China's energy policy as well.
But in the meantime, let's get you
caught up with our top story. Senior US
officials say that the US and Iran are
closing in on a deal that would reopen
the straight of Hormuz, but it may take
several days for both sides to get final
approval. Meanwhile, in true social
posts, President Trump says the US won't
rush into a deal with Iran. He adds that
bilateral relations are becoming more
productive, but reiterates that Tyrron
will not be allowed to have a nuclear
weapon.
>> Let's get more with our guest Karen
Young. She is senior research scholar at
Columbia University. Karen, great to
have you with us. So, we are approaching
the fourth month of this war and we've
seen already a number of head fakes as
to whether the US and Iran are going to
achieve a deal. What's your assessment
of this? And if we do see the reopening
of the straits, how quickly can prices
fall or revert back to norm?
>> Well, thank you. it is maybe edging
towards a deal but uh racing towards an
energy crisis and a deepening of this
crisis. And so the Trump administration
has really revealed that Iran has more
leverage here um and that the priority
is now opening the straight trying to
get to some level of an increase in
traffic flows. I don't think anyone
expects normalization of TR uh flows to
February 28th uh levels. Um and and this
is not an agreement that would be um
akin to uh you know a resolution
certainly of the nuclear dispute or has
no mention reportedly of Iran's missile
capability or its support for regional
proxies. So it's a very streamlined
attempt to uh to basically resume LG and
crude and refined product flows through
the straight of Hormuz. Um I think you
know markets are reacting favorably
because anything that is moving in the
opposite direction of military conflict
bodess well for uh for energy prices but
it doesn't mean that things get back to
normal. So in terms of timing we're
still looking at 3 to four months of
resumption of um of oil production um
from from wells. That's what Kuwait
Petroleum has told us. Uh Sultan Al
Jabra said last week that even getting
to 80% normal production in the UAE
would take three to four months. Um and
this is assuming that we have you know
very open and non-threatened non-min
traffic through the straight of Hormuz.
So we're still looking really to the end
of this year in a best case scenario um
for resumption of traffic and I think
there's no reason to believe that that
level in terms of crude output um would
would change the the direction of flows
which are being used through the
diversion of pipelines. Those are going
to be constant and we're seeing the
resumption or the new construction um
certainly of pipelines through the UAE
and probably a resumption of some
existing pipelines that go currently
through Saudi Arabia. Um so I I would
say let's be very very cautious. Um it
is not a magical fix. Um but certainly
some welcome news just that there would
be a bit of uh of movement and mediation
more so on the American side than the
Iranian side of demands.
Karen to your point about how this
>> go ahead Averil sorry
>> Karen to your point about how this could
be a protracted issue all the way till
maybe even the end of the year will be
still talking about this I mean what's
your sense of u the extent in which some
of these longer term ramifications
how are states adjusting or perhaps also
looking to alternative sources of energy
at this stage
>> well you know buyers of the products,
refined products and crude and LG that
come out of the straight of Hormuz are
are already thinking about alternatives
and thinking about building new storage
capacity, building new refining
capacity. That will take time. Um, but
the producers are also thinking about
how not to be in such a strangle hold of
the strait. Now, for Kuwait, Iraq, for
Qatar, for LNG, there really are not
many alternatives and certainly no quick
fix. Um, and so you're going to see
different positions from regional states
as they try to make arrangements,
non-aggression deals with Iran, um, and
even the United States. I think
recognizing in the Trump administration
that this is a threat to the global
economy. This has certainly been and
continues to be a rising threat to
energy markets mostly because of what
we're seeing in the draw down of
inventories and storage. Um many
analysts have seen the end of June,
middle of June as sort of an inflection
point in when we get to um really
critical levels in inventory draws. Um
and so I think the White House has
recognized that deadline. They're aware
of it. Um and this effort is basically
an extension of a 30-day ceasefire
effort with an additional 30 days to
deal with um some negotiation of the
nuclear issue. And I think it's
important to recognize that the White
House is really segregating the issues.
Um the the agreement would perhaps have
two addendum maybe one that is about um
how the nuclear talks proceed agreements
about how Iran would receive access to
funds which is really the Iranian
priority. How do they get access to um
withheld funds that are um are due to
them in Qatar and in Turkey? Um and
that's what they want to see first. And
so, you know, the the current impass
will be when can Iran get access to some
financial relief and how might uh a
procedure of opening of the strait still
be managed by Iran um but proceed in
some sort of measured demonstrable way
so that we see some progress.
Karen, there's there's been a lot of
debate amongst experts like yourself
about China really emerging as a winner
uh amidst this energy crisis. They have
somehow managed to massively reduce
their oil imports for example, but also
the exports of green energy for also has
been something that people look at as
you mentioned as nations realign their
energy policies. Uh h how beneficial do
you think this could be for for Beijing?
>> Absolutely. And you know, China has been
very smart, was very well prepared for
this crisis, had a a very large
stockpile of crude, maybe 1.4 billion
barrels. We're not exactly sure. Um, but
they also put in place measures, which
other countries have done, to restrict
the export of refined product. But at
the same time, they see that countries
within the neighborhood in East Asia are
certainly suffering and very desperate
for particularly jet fuel, diesel, LPG.
Um, and so they've made some kind of
side concessions. they would export some
product to some countries with uh an
agreement that these countries would
sign on to a longer term supply chain
deal for renewable energy uh products
from from China. So it's a huge
opportunity for the Chinese renewable
supply chain. Um and I think in general
there will be an interest and a um
certainly an openness to Chinese EV
production but also their solar
manufacturing production.
How do you see energy prices moving
forward? I mean, I know we're we're back
to below 100, but do do you see some
sort of pathway if they reopen the
straight of horos does Brent go back to
90 or do you think that we're we're
going to be staying and stuck in this
sort of range for some time given, as
you highlighted, it's going to take
months for for things to really resume?
>> I think it really all depends on um the
the threat perception of the neighbors.
um if we see you know uh traffic that
begins to move a bit more it would
certainly make a huge different to uh
difference to crude markets if we saw
even you know let's say five to 10 uh
very large tankers per day that would be
really an important increase in in the
kind of missing barrels to market. Um
but that's not going to change our
inventory status. It's not going to
change their refined product shortage
status. Um, and so that's going to take
months to unwind. So I would pay more
attention to the price spike that we're
seeing in diesel, in jet fuel, um,
rather than and gasoline rather than
what we're seeing in movements of Brent
right now.
>> Karen, it's great to have you on the
program. Karen Young there, senior
research scholar at Columbia University
joining us. Uh, we're checking when it
comes to coke and coal futures uh, this
morning, which I think have reached a
daily limit. In fact, uh when you take a
look at what's been going on, so we've
been seeing with this this weekend coal
mine blast, uh and there you go. You
see, uh when it comes to those futures
are spiking here this morning, as we
talked about, uh this this incident has
left at least 82 people dead. Uh and
it's also prompted a vast rescue
operation and promises of an
investigation. We'll have more of course
on the implications of this moving
forward as well, April.
Yeah, I think Morgan Stanley also
putting out a note on how the latest
incident could trigger concerns about
safety inspections. So that outward
pressure to lift coal prices in the near
term at the time where separately China
has launched a campaign against illegal
crossber trading to stem capital
outflows. Regulators plan to penalize
brokerages Futu Holdings, Tiger Brokers,
and Longbridge Securities for operating
on the mainland without a license.
Managing editor for Asia Equities
Lenting 2 is with us now. Lenting so
this came as a bit of a shocker the way
in which this crackdown sort of
transpired hefty fines expected for
these brokers. I mean what uh are the
broader ramifications I suppose the risk
from this?
>> Yeah, as you mentioned it is really a
big shock uh late Friday definitely
caught the market participants by
surprise. Um in terms of ramifications,
we definitely uh we already saw as you
mentioned golden dragon index down 2.2%
in the US on Friday and uh it it was the
broker stocks like food that really got
hammered. I think mainland reactions
today may be relatively muted as a
crackdown was more targeted at offshore
assets but broker stocks may be the most
sensitive today given the the readacross
for the industry. Um, and to be sure,
there are still questions out there to
be answered. For example, whether
mainland investors onshore stock
holdings, uh, offshore, I should say,
stock holdings will need to be
liquidated within two years or they are
merely restrained from trading offshore
stocks while they are in mainland China.
Uh, Morgan Stanley seems to be leaning
towards the latter. Uh, so so yeah,
there's still a lot of clarity to be
had. And also, uh, Civic Securities just
came out with some estimates that
mainland retail holding in Hong Kong
stocks is estimated to be around $30
billion. So, if they're really dumping
all at once and that could really, you
know, wreak havoc the market, but again,
it depends on the speed of the
liquidation that may happen. Uh, so
yeah, I mean, I think really we need to
watch out for the Hong Kong open
tomorrow. One more thing I wanted to
mention is a potential impact on the IPO
market because mainland investor they
have been pouring a lot of money into
some of the uh hot AI uh deals debuting
in Hong Kong recently. They've all
traded really well. So without that
support uh potentially the IPO market
may may be cooling a little bit.
>> Nancy, there's also the sense of unease
among regulators about this AI stock
frenzy. I mean, we had that scoop late
last week about how they're looking into
more you these companies and funds. How
do we make sense of it now?
>> Yeah, regulators, they they are not
trying to kill the AI thesis there.
They're trying to weed out those
pretenders. When you have a local wine
maker doubling its stock price in a week
on vague computing power rumors, Beijing
has to step in. Uh so they're basically
forcing fund managers to inject some
actual math back into a market that is
running very high on FOMO right now. So
it is not the real AI players that the
government is having issues with. It is
those AI meme stock trading uh trading
at thousands of times their earnings
that are in the crosshairs of
regulators. Um so yeah, I would expect
some short-term cooling off uh and a bit
of a reality check for those frothier
names. Uh but for in institutional money
clearing out the noise like this is
actually a healthy thing.
>> Vanting thank you too there our managing
editor for Asia equities as she talked
about two pretty big themes that could
really react uh to markets in Hong Kong
as they of course reopen tomorrow and we
are counting down the open of trade and
onore markets Shanghai and Shenzhen
today. Reminder of course as we say Hong
Kong is shut for a public holiday as
well as in South Korea uh you the UK US
and parts of Europe also. So uh mind the
liquidity sort of gap here this morning.
This is the China show.
We are checking cocal futures that have
spiked this morning here in the back of
this weekend blast at a mine in China's
Shangshi province. that's killed at
least 82 people with the cause still
under investigation. Now, the accident
has triggered a vast rescue operation
involving hundreds of emergency workers
and an intervention from President Xi
Jinping and senior officials. Steven
Zapchinsky, who leads our Asia energy
coverage, joins us now. Uh uh Stephen,
obviously this is a very tragic event
that has happened. Can you walk us
through what we know so far of of how it
this happened?
Well, it it does seem that uh the safety
measures at the mine weren't taken uh as
seriously. Uh there seems to have been u
at least two times last year where they
had major violations. Um local reports
say that there were more people um in
the mine than than who were actually
registered. Um there some of according
to local reports um the workers weren't
wearing um GPS uh locators as well. So,
this does seem to be, you know, this is
a relatively small operation in the
grand scheme of Chinese, the China's
massive coal industry. Um, this is not a
state-owned C company. It is a private
company. And it really does sound like
uh there were some strong uh safety
lapses there. uh which is clearly uh
causing also some some uh outrage um by
by the government um cracking down
potentially on the local uh regime there
um in in Shani province but also um it
seems that you know when you go on way
and you you go on social media there
were a lot of uh comments there as well
uh talking about how this this mine was
skirting um you know the strict safety
measures that uh Xi Jinping's government
had had put in place to stop this exact
thing from happening.
>> Stephen, this is coming at the time
where China has upped its output to
record levels to help with energy
security, the demands of the economy.
Are you expecting some sort of, you
know, nearterm impact on prices? We're
already seeing how futures are reacting.
>> Yeah. So, this was a coing coal um
project. So, cocing coal is used for
smelting steel. It's a metals um uh sort
of material for coal and it's not
necessarily always used in in power
plants and that's why we're seeing the
coing coal price uh spike to a limit
this morning. Um I think uh there are
two ways to look at this. There will be
a crackdown on on the local um area. Uh
you're going to see already there are
local report there are reports saying
that um some cooking coal mines are
being shut for more inspections. I think
the risk and the fear is that this uh
extends beyond just cocal uh beyond just
this small area where where there is a
large amount of cocal mines to the rest
of shanhi and maybe even nationwide. So
uh the province is the biggest coal
producing province. It's a coal hub. It
produces more coal than many countries.
Um and if there is a crackdown across
this entire province, then you could
start to see thermal coal affected.
Thermal coal is a type of coal that's
used in power plants um and it is used
for most of the power generation um in
China. Uh if that were to happen then
you would see a larger uh potentially
market impact in energy. uh China
depends very heavily on its domestic
coal for energy and power and they
import a little bit but if there is some
sort of crackdown that results in lower
output from those thermal coal mines
then maybe they have to import a little
bit more from Australia uh from
Indonesia that tightens the global
market and that sends coal prices
globally potentially higher.
>> Stephen, great to have you. Thank you
for bringing us the latest in what sort
of ripple effects we maybe should be
watching for. Steven Stchinsky who leads
our Asia energy coverage. Plenty more
ahead. This is Bloomberg.
Your agenda in greater China today. Of
course, Hong Kong markets are shut uh
for Buddha's birthday, but we are still
tracking, of course, everything around
this coal blast probe uh and also when
it comes to oil, right? What we saw in
the last couple of days about a possible
deal between the US and Iran that could
be happening soon to reopen the straight
of Hormuz. So, oil certainly will be in
focus given that we're back below 100
bucks for Brennan WTI. broker stocks as
well given the crackdown we saw with
some of these crossber uh trading uh
companies and there's going to be a CGB
sale as well. So certainly a lot still
on tap here despite Hong Kong being shut
April.
Yeah, on that crackdown it was a
reaction certainly that we already saw
in some of these broker related stocks
in the US. We saw the Golden China also
uh under a lot of pressure late Friday.
So, it'll be interesting to see when
Hong Kong reopens what the um market
reaction is going to look like. But this
is of course coming at the time where we
are watching a couple of these other
tech stocks on the mainland AI computing
related ones given how deepsek is going
to make permanent these really steep
discounts for its flagship V4 Pro model.
So perhaps watching some of these
momentum trades for tech as far as that
is concerned. And as you said, watching
some of these energy related movements
in markets following on from that deadly
mind blast in Shani, the deadliest
disaster we've seen since the year 2009.
And as Steven was highlighting just a
while ago, coing coal futures are
already showing that reaction in
markets. We'll track the open next. This
is Bloomberg.
Welcome back. You're watching the China
Show. We're counting down to the open of
markets. Hong Kong, South Korea, they'll
be shut today. But of course, we still
have things going on the mainland.
Watching a couple of things as far as AI
and computing related stocks are
concerned given how Deep Seek is set to
make permanent some of these steep
discounts for its flagship AI models.
Ivon
75% discount certainly is a really good
sort of headline there. So certainly
what does that lead to in terms of the
competition among AI and really as it
continues to intensify do these price
wars continue and but there are going to
be parts of this market that might
benefit I'm guessing developers are
certainly liking that news as well. So
there's that and then of course you have
a situation when it comes to Iran,
right? That we might be getting closer
to some sort of deal to reopen the
straight of Hormuz that certainly is
lifting risk sentiment across Asia here
today. But as we mentioned with Hong
Kong uh with South Korea shut um we are
seeing liquidity that's been impacted
but Japan those stocks are at a record
here right now. Onore markets are doing
this and following those tailwinds as we
just mentioned. CSI 300 were up about
610 of 1%. Shanghai comp is also up
about a third. Uh we're watching very
closely of course the chip space uh just
given of course that news about deepseek
uh it certainly could lift of course
some of these chip stocks in particular.
There you go. Capricorn tech is up 3%.
Shanghai crude we say as as we kind of
noted here was going to be seeing a bit
more heaviness given what we've been
seeing now that we have oil and crude
and and Brent at back below a h 100red
bucks right on signs that maybe we're
getting closer to some sort of uhou
according to President Trump uh when it
comes to Iran still some you know
sticking points though when it comes to
you know the nuclear capabilities of
Iran and the like but nonetheless
markets are going with it here right now
um we're we're checking of course
commodities just given what what we've
been seeing uh this deadly coal blast in
Shangshi province. So we obviously coing
coal futures have spiked higher here at
one point did go limit up. Um so we are
watching some of these coal related
stocks here today which along with the
price of futures are heading higher
here. Uh we're talking about more than
80 people that have died and certainly
does leave a lot of question marks of of
really maybe this whole energy security
push uh from Beijing and the longer term
implications. Morgan Stanley saying, you
know, this could impact medium-term
prices uh as of course these probes and
investigations continue. You know, the
fear as our Steven Sachchinsky mentioned
is that this does spread or at least
extend this offensication uh to to the
entire Shangu province or even something
that could be national as we've seen
with previous tragedies. So, that
certainly is one thing to to mark at a
time uh when China is dealing with this
energy crisis with Iran and the like
too. So, uh that's certainly one thing
to watch. AI computing stocks. Uh, of
course, after that deepseek announcement
that they're, you know, the this these
steep discounts were supposed to expire
this month. They basically have extended
that. So, with that, you're seeing a
pretty mixed picture among some of these
AI computing stocks here today. Um, but
you are seeing gains from Kingsoft for
example, Visual China Group. Uh, chip
stocks are doing this. If you take a
look at what's been going on there,
certainly there's been a lot of momentum
around this this sort of the side of the
trade. There you go. You still see Huah
Hong Semi and SMIC doing quite well in
the onshore market here. We'll see of
course how Hong Kong and the reaction
is. Mind you as well what happened on
Friday. We learned that Jupu and Miniax
those stocks have also been included in
the AST tech gauge. So we might see a
pretty big reaction uh tomorrow as well
for those stocks. April.
>> Yeah. Meanwhile, this week as well, we
also s have some of these inflation
readings from several major economies.
That'll be a focus for investors. We
have the big one which is of course the
Fed's preferred topline inflation gauge.
So PCE price index and that could show a
two-month acceleration that is the
highest since 2021.
Other than that Australia, Tokyo
inflation readings as well. And then
from central banks uh we are expecting
decisions from Korea and the RBNZ both
expected to keep things unchanged. So
certainly the energy and inflation pass
through that's something that investors
will be watching as far as macro is
concerned. Ivon,
>> yeah the macro picture is still one
thing, right? I think equity markets and
equity traders are kind of divorcing
themselves from that. They're continuing
on with the AI trade. But when it comes
to the bond market and what traders
they're pricing in, they continue to
express of course the inflation
concerns, these Fed rate hikes uh
possibly as early as the end of this
year, right? So certainly we'll wonder
now that we have seen Brent, you know,
back below 100 signs of maybe the
straight of horm reopening. Does that
give some welcome relief to pond traders
out there? We also heard from the White
House National Economic Council Director
Kevin Hasset making the case for a rate
cut. Take a listen.
>> Again, we expect energy prices as soon
as there's a deal to plummet. And when
that happens, then there'll be a lot of
room for the Fed to do the right thing
at lower rates. But again, I respect the
independence of the Fed and the
intellect uh of Kevin Worsh and I'm sure
that he'll work it out on a data
dependent way.
>> That was Kevin Haz speaking on Fox News.
Joining us now is our next guest, Tracy
Chen, portfolio manager at Brandy Wine
Global. Tracy, it's good to have you on
the program. Uh you know, Kevin has it
was saying, you know, once this war is
over, he expects energy prices to
plummet. Is that going to be a welcome
relief for the bond market, you think?
>> Hi, Ivon. Thanks for having me. I think
that's definitely a temporary relief. Uh
but I don't think this bond sell off is
purely driven by the Iran war. Um be
because if you dissect what's the driver
behind this global DM bond sell off um
you can see the fiveyear fiveyear
inflation expectation is actually the
the inflation expectation anchor is is
is very well anchored. uh at the same
time the the term premium and the the
repricing of the neutral rate that's the
real driver behind this uh bond sell
off. So even if we get some relief on
oil price I I don't think the the DM
bond sell off structurally will just
stop here uh or we we can temporarily
see a bond relief rally but uh in the
medium term I think the DM bond selloff
story um just doesn't uh ju just won't
end here. Yeah, it's it's more a
structural story. Yeah,
>> it's interesting too because as you
mentioned real rates uh real real rates
are actually driving been driven long
higher now um because there's so many
other things right rising debt levels
there there's some that say you know AI
in this boom is is also inflationary
>> in some ways so you know what what sort
of range are you expecting here when you
take a look at the long end of the curve
in the US Treasury market I mean what
what range are we likely to stay in
>> yeah if you look at 10 year I think uh
four and 75 or even five uh I think that
that that that could be the the next
step um and 30 year I think between five
and a half uh to six is not too far off
um based on the structural forces that
you mentioned the fiscal in discipline
uh massive def uh defense spending AI
infrastructure spending and aging
demographics and also geopolitical
turmoil we have we have seen frequently
the choke points um around the world,
right? Um so like um I think all these
can can trigger like inflation um in
inflation breakout.
>> On that inflation front, Tracy, we also
saw in terms of the curve on Friday, the
fives to 30s, I think was the flattest
we saw it in about a year. What do you
think that
uh signal is from investors? Is it
because they expect Kevin Walsh to be
prioritizing fighting inflation even if
Trump maybe wants a bit of rate cuts?
>> I think that's uh not because of uh
people's expectation on Walsh to fight
inflation. I think that's more a bond
vigilante uh that they are uh warning
the the the the the central banks that
they they are behind the curve. they
might uh start to hike interest rate. Uh
because of the labor market in the US is
actually slightly improving. Uh we see
the jobless claim they are uh slightly
declining and the retiring of baby
boomers they can uh lower the
participation rate. Um and at the same
time the very tight immigration policy
um will also uh lower the participation
rate. So the job market is not that um
is not that loose. um it can tighten um
and we don't see a wage price spiral and
I I think that's the key. I think uh
unless um the Fed sees um the um the
anchoring of the inflation um
expectation is out of control, I don't
think they will um they will hike
interest rate. But at the same time, I
don't think they will easily uh build a
case to lower the interest rate. So I
think the the the base case for us is
they will keep the rate uh on hold for
the time being and just see how how this
uh Iran war will pan out and how
sustainable if we have a uh the the the
opening of the the the straight up horm.
>> What's your assessment of what we're
seeing in in China and do you see
Chinese bonds assets being a sort of
anchor for emerging markets overall?
>> Yeah, definitely. uh both the currency
and the bond are serving as a true
haven. Um year to date um the CNY has
been performing really well. it
appreciate more than 3% against the US
dollar. Even though the rate in the rate
differential between uh CGB and US
10year has been widening by about 40 to
50 bips but you you still see CNY
rallied ve very strongly and um the
sharp ratio of the performance is is
very decent um and it's the true haven
in terms of CGB. uh I think it's it's
the only uh major economist bond market
that has been so stable and and
performed so well. I think it's because
of lack of domestic demand uh for credit
and the weak uh growth that has been
driving and also the massive amount of
liquidity in the Chinese uh financial
market. I think that's also driven uh
both the equity and the bond market uh
like outperformance.
>> Okay. So maybe that's where the haven
play is. Uh what about in terms of just
this the sell-off that we've seen
globally, right? Duration has been
selling basically selling off
everywhere. I is this an opportunity to
to maybe look for opportunities? Are you
seeing may maybe some of these selloffs
are a bit overextended now and maybe
it's time to buy on this dip? Yeah, I
think uh the interesting thing for the
uh global bond market is um DM and EM
bifurcated like DM we have been seeing
global DM uh market selling off led by
UK and JGB um and and and and also US
bond market but at the same time the EM
they they have been outperforming. I
look at the the spread between uh EM and
and DM. Um they heightened uh from the
from the like 300 to 400 uh bips level
in back in 2014 2016 and now they narrow
to like 100 to 150 bips. So that that
shows you where the real problem is.
It's in the DM world. Uh after the COVID
the the government they just spend like
crazy and the fiscal in discipline um is
there. So, so I think there's this
definitely create uh many opportunities
for us um in the DM world. we see some
opportunities um in in countries like
Hungary and also in in the um in the in
and also UK even uh UK has been selling
off and because of the markets
skepticism of their governance whether
UK is governable but I think a lot of
bad news already priced in um and at the
same time the the central bank policy
they have been bifurcating uh we have
BOJ slowly tightening and BOE pretty
much on hold because their growth is so
weak and uh ECB uh probably will
slightly tighten and uh like the US Fed
will will keep on hold uh because as I
said their um their base case is they
look at labor market and also they they
they look at the inflation expectation
um and in the EM world the central bank
um they they have been on they will be
on hold as well uh because uh some some
countries they have been um they have
been hiking um like um um like Indonesia
and Philippines, right? Because uh
Indonesia's hike of their interest rate
because they want to stabilize their
currency. So we we do see some
opportunities in countries like
Philippines um because their uh interest
rate curve is very steepen between two
year and 10 year. Uh it's around 140
bips. That's the the the steepest. and
um they will probably be included in the
JP Morgan uh GBI index and their um
their foreign ownership is only below
5%. That's the lowest. So we we like
their um after the sell off we added
more position in Philippines uh
government bond.
>> So that uh that's just example of we
take advantage of the sell off.
>> Tracy, we got to leave it there. Thank
you. Tracy Chen, portfolio manager at
Brandy Wine Global. Um, as we were
talking about EM, you know, certainly we
have seen currencies like the rupee uh
drop to record lows last week. Of
course, we're hearing a little bit more
from local media mint there. Uh, they're
saying that the central bank governor
has said that the rupee may be
undervalued and this is after we heard
from the central bank had intervened to
shore up of course the struggling rupee
as we start to see these elevated oil
prices really push the currency to those
record lows. So certainly one to watch
as India markets open up here on this
Monday morning. Um and in Averville
really coming up we're going to talk a
little bit more about APEC too.
>> Yeah Washington's top envoy to APEC
telling Bloomberg that energy exports
are a key pillar of the Trump
administration strategy in the region.
That exclusive conversation is next.
This is Bloomberg.
Welcome back. Here are some of the
headlines we're following from around
the world. Foreigners seeking permanent
residency in the US will now have to
leave the country to apply for green
cards, except in extraordinary
circumstances. The policy could leave
applicants stranded for extended periods
and disrupt families and companies
sponsoring foreign workers. Immigration
lawyers say the move is legally
questionable and needlessly chaotic and
warn litigation is likely.
US health authorities are planning to
temporarily bar green card holders from
re-entering the country if they've
traveled recently to Ebola affected
areas. The interim rule will remain in
place for 6 months or until Health
Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr.
determines it's no longer needed.
Authorities in the Democratic Republic
of Congo had reported about 870
suspected cases and about 200 probable
deaths as of Friday. Ivon,
well, the US says the Asia-Pacific has a
huge potential to buy more American
exports, including liqufied natural gas
amid the war in Iran. Speaking
exclusively to Bloomberg, Washington's
top envoy to APEC told us that energy
exports are a key part of the Trump
administration's trade strategy for the
region.
APEC represents a $ 1.5 trillion market
for the United States. We we exported
over a trillion dollars in goods to APEC
economies last year alone and nearly
half a trillion in services. It's an
enormous market. A lot of the economies
are growing. the the the digital
opportunities in the digital and AI um
space are enormous for the United
States.
>> So we need to stay at the forefront of
the conversation and of the agenda to
make sure that the region sees the
United States is not just the leader but
the solutions they need to power their
economic growth. What's the opportunity
that is really there at hand between US
and China when you have China hosting
APEC, you have the US hosting G20, you
have another summit coming up in
September 24th, you have the APEC leader
summit perhaps in November. Um, a lot of
pressure to get some significant
deliverables on resetting this
relationship on a more stable footing.
Do you think the US already has sort of
extended that fragile truce? I think
what last week's uh last week's meeting
and outcomes were very positive and we
are excited to build off of that off of
those outcomes and to build off of that
momentum going into APEC and G20. Of
course, uh President Xi has has agreed
to visit the United States in September.
another opportunity to continue to work
on issues both in the bilateral
relationship but for us to continue to
promote American business solutions and
business exports to China and the
broader region. What do you say when
inevitably your trading partners in the
Asia Pacific do come to you and say we
are having trouble with, you know, oil
price shock and inflation um supply
chain um
disruptions no doubt um obviously
exacerbated by the the issues in the
Middle East. I mean this is not going to
necessarily go away overnight. So what
is your response to them? Well,
>> they look to other other countries like
China as on their own bilateral
relations.
>> Yeah. Well, first of all, another big
outcome from last week was the fact that
President Xi and President Trump agreed
that Iran shouldn't have a nuclear
weapon, that the straight of Hormuz
should be reopened, and that Iran
shouldn't uh toll traffic through the
straight of Hormuz. All of those are
critically important to restoring um the
energy supply chain uh fluidity that
this region needs. But but energy
security has long been a topic of
conversation at APEC. It's certainly um
en promoting energy security, promoting
American energy exports is a is a
priority for the administration. It's
been a priority for us at APEC last
year. Now it is again this year. What's
critically important for this region is
to continue to look to diversify um
their energy supplies
>> so that they they're more resilient uh
and and America is has a lot of great
energy exports to offer. Um and so
>> that sort of dried up. I mean the United
States is the largest LG exporter but
again
>> China's looking at alternatives.
Obviously you know about the power of
Siberia too with Russia that's being
continually discussed and I think the LG
imports from America pretty much
dwindled after the uh the tariff barrage
if you will. You're hopeful though do
you think LG exports to China can
resume? well to China but also to the
broader region. Uh there the our
partners in the region are making more
and more commitments to buy American LG
to buy American crude oil because they
see us as a reliable and affordable
supplier of energy exports the energy
that this region demands.
>> Casey Mace, US senior official to APE
speaking to Bloomberg Steven Angel. And
there's more from the APEC meeting in
the next hour. We hear from a top
Indonesian official about commodity
export control plans that have rattled
markets. Much more ahead on the China
show. This is Bloomberg.
There you go. We have liftoff. China has
launched the Shenzhou 23 spaceship with
three crew members aboard uh on this
Sunday. And really, it was quite a
fascinating sort of mission to the
Tiangong space station. Among them on
board is Hong Kong's first astronaut,
Lie Cayen. Now, Lie is a former police
officer with a doctorate in computer
forensics. There she is right there,
who's also serving as a payload expert.
She also was a former police officer. Uh
she's been all over my Instagram feed. I
don't know about you, April, but it's a
proud moment certainly for Hong Kongers
like myself.
>> Yeah, super proud moment for the Hong
Kong ladies at the stage, right? And I
think she's also going to be responsible
for conducting experiments at the
Tangong space station. And of course
this is coming at a time where the space
race and the focus I guess for AI is you
know what the next frontier for compute
is going to look like. So really the
rivalry being taken to space so to
speak. Ivonne.
>> Yeah. You can see her excitement in
their smiling there. Um yeah the first
female civilian astronaut who is also
the first orbiter traveler from Hong
Kong. Uh so certainly we'll be tracking
all those developments going through
there of course on this mission but yes
um yeah we we're certainly proud of her
uh there of course uh it's always great
pictures as well. Take a look when it
comes to markets of course we'll move on
from that given just all the smiles and
the waves. You're certainly seeing
plenty of smiles on this tech rally that
continues here. uh given just you know
the AI sort of trade continues to take
flight and we still have liftoff here
when it comes to some of these Taiwanese
names here this morning and look at the
TX we're up close to 3%. Uh even with
you know South Korea and Hong Kong shut
really a lot of the focus has been on
Taiwan Japan I think the topics as well
as the NIK are both at record highs here
and you're seeing a lot of these Taiwan
AI related names continue to surge today
April.
Yeah, we'll continue tracking these
market moves in the next hour. Of
course, it's really this tailwind we're
getting from the AI related trades. This
is Bloomberg.
Welcome back to the China show. Here's a
look at the CSI 300 a half hour into the
session. Of course, with Hong Kong
market shut here today, all the focus is
really on what we're seeing uh in
onshore markets. Uh you're seeing
actually pretty moderate sort of, you
know, rise in stocks here right now, but
certainly there is a lot of price
action. You take a look what some of
these chip stocks are doing. There's
news on Huawei with this new chip
breakthrough to possibly shorten the gap
with TSMC. That's certainly lifting a
lot of the semiconductor space here
today too, April.
Yeah, watching those uh developments
from Deepseek as well. Those steep
discounts for its flagship AI model,
might that also benefit developers in a
way? Of course, on Friday, we got that
bit of information about how Drupu and
Miniax will be included. So, we'll see
how Hong Kong reacts tomorrow. But in
the meantime, it's really the tech
related trades that are driving the
Japanese markets. You look at how the NE
is acceling the gains from last Friday.
It's really driven by the electronic
appliances related stocks. That's the
sector on the topics. We're also seeing
some of these energy related names
including impacts on the back foot given
these geopolitical developments or at
least the optimism towards a US Iran
deal and how that is putting pressure on
brand prices still sitting below $100 a
barrel on the most active brand
contract. Of course, when it comes to
these uh futures, we are also watching
cocing coal futures. Following on from
the deadly mining incident, the
deadliest in China since the year 2009
and Morgan Stanley put out a note about
how in the near- term maybe we see given
the scrutiny in the sector that might
drive up prices in the near term.
Shanghai crude also tracking those
declines we're seeing in Brent. Ivonne.
>> Yep. Um certainly that's going to be one
thing to focus as we track this coal
mine incident that killed at least 82
people for now. So that certainly this
investigation is underway uh in China
and Shangshi province there. Uh let's
bring in our markets reporter Anthony
Steven who's tracking all things
momentum and the like and and really
this news of Iran and the US possibly
getting to a deal. We're seeing oil is
back down again. Dollar is softening a
little bit and it's just kind of fullale
for the AI trade. Yeah, look, um, oil at
110 didn't phase equities. Uh, and so
oil at 100 is probably going to be just
skies clear, right? And we're starting
to see Japan and Taiwan really take off.
They got off to a okay start. They were
up around a percent, but now we're
starting to really see some proper
momentum. Uh, and that's driven by this
relentless hunt for the next bottleneck
in AI. Right? So, we've been through the
basic semiconductors. You've done
Samsung, Highix, TSMC. Now people are
looking at cheap uh kind of materials uh
server names and the kind of names in
Taiwan and Japan that are up 15 20% just
today and one of the drivers of that is
the anthropic uh kind of fund raise
right which is going swimmingly well on
the weekend they plan they managed to
raise more money than they have
anticipated and so that IPO looks like
it's going to set to perhaps surpass
open AI so these two companies are
racing towards the finish line and as
you and as you can imagine they probably
are putting out some very optimistic
projections out there, right? Uh and
then, you know, we can touch on the the
China chip ecosystem as well, which is
benefiting on its own.
>> Yeah. This Huawei 1.4 nanometer chips um
that they started making, they're saying
that this is actually technologically
getting very close to closing that gap
with TSM.
>> Yeah. So, they're going a different way
from the ASML dependency, right? The the
pure lithography kind of focus. They
have something called the logic folding
technique which sounds like a you know
video game move but it's apparently
going to give them 1.4 nanometer ability
by 2031. That is 5 years behind what
TSMC has promised. So 2028 this is a gap
but by the Chinese policy makers
standards who think in decades that is
irrelevant right so there there's
getting a lot of enthusiasm in the
domestic market now that people like
Camricorn SMIC Huang can start to make
absolutely bleeding edge chips and
you're seeing that in the stock price
reaction today these stocks up five to
6% in the context of a market that's
flat so all these markets share a
similar theme markets are hunting for
the next AI high bottleneck and they're
rewarding investors who've done that
deep tech work
>> including in Taiwan I suppose that
market seeing inflows as well what are
you expecting on that front
>> right yeah so $2 billion plus went into
Taiwan on Friday uh that's the highest
in about in a few months uh and you can
just see people are chasing that market
right it's rotating away from TSMC into
these more niche players uh like Yagio
Delta uh these kind of things that
create the servers uh that uh AI goes
into. And we had a couple of heads up on
this theme, right? We had very strong
comments from Lenovo. Uh we had very
strong comments from Jensen Huang on
CPUs. And Taiwan has a lot of the CPU
knowow even in China where you will need
to build more kind of server farms. They
will help to get that tech from uh from
Taiwan. So Taiwan is sitting really
nicely on the crossroads of the buildout
in both the US and China on these AIA
kind of server farms.
>> Anthony, thank you. Anthony Stevens
there, a markets reporter on all things
uh tech really today from Morris. Bring
in uh from Montreal, Yan Wong, chief EM
and China strategist at Alpine Macro.
Yan Wong, it's always great to have you.
I'm just wondering how you're you're
witnessing all this uh from all the way
from Canada. When you're taking a look
at all this momentum plays around North
Asia, even some of the China AI plays as
well. Can you continue to chase that
momentum at the moment?
>> Well, I guess investors have to chase
the momentum because the AI boom is
probably not over. Uh there's if you
compare with the previous hack booms,
there's still u some room to run. So, I
think the boom market still has has
lags. um and um yeah so so especially
now the markets the investors are uh the
gains are so heavily concentrated in a
few names so I think it's very dangerous
to really bet against that as as an
investor I guess you have to follow the
the momentum um for us for us as a EM
investor uh we uh we have this kind of
barbell approach one is on the AI the
the Asia tax space in in Korea
particularly in Korea and Taiwan and
even the Chinese tech names on the other
hand we also favor uh commodity
intensive LATAM and Indonesia. I guess
you you need to have uh you play both
sides of the uh the investment boom in
the AI technology
>> and what's the barbell you mentioned is
is the resourcerich sort of markets as
well right that that's how you balance
it out
>> right yeah because precisely as your
previous uh reporter um just made the
case um AI boom now people are are
focusing on the uh bottleneck in the AI
supply chain the technology supply chain
But don't forget the investment in
technology in uh uh in uh um uh uh uh
data centers in all these kind of uh
very metal intensive infrastructure
projects you know they need ultimately
they need uh um resources. So that's why
even even uh now we had this massive
energy shock uh metal prices are have
been very resilient. So we still believe
metal prices will will continue to
rally. So that's why we prefer having
exposure on both ends of this uh
investment boom.
>> For markets such as Indonesia though you
do get the sense that they are trying to
control exports a bit more. Do you see
that as a risk a headwind for for EM
such as Indonesia
>> uh for Yeah. So that's that's a
frustrating market. I think I think
there is a lot of cross currency in that
particular market. Um and particularly
the down the the near-term volatility is
uh whether um the uh the country will
face some kind downgrade from uh u data
providers. So but but at the end of the
day the market is very cheap. Um this is
probably the only market that dividend
yield is higher than bond yield. Um so
it's a very beaten down market. Um but
the in terms of control in uh exports of
um uh critical minerals I think I think
that this is a common theme right so
this is actually these kind of measures
will create bottleneck in the supply of
of these base metals so maybe you have
some sim something similar uh to the uh
um uh semiconductor um memory chips
those kind of bottlenecks
Right. When it comes to Taiwan, I mean,
we take a point about, you know, you
cannot sit out the rally. You kind of
have to chase it. But I wonder given the
geopolitics, do you see risks as well in
how you know this is a market that's
also very very concentrated in an AI
industry and a sector as a whole?
>> Absolutely. I I think Yeah. So basically
our strategy is to play the boom at this
for for the moment. Uh the near-term
momentum is still very very strong. We
don't we don't think um this is the the
upside is exhausted at this moment. But
all but clearly uh semiconductor the the
Taiwanese market is so heavily
concentrated in this one single sector
and even one single stock right and
overall the economy is also very heavily
heavily dependent on this one single e
one single uh industry uh and then this
single industry now has become some kind
of battlefield between the US and China.
So you can feel like everything is
concentrated into one single sector and
I don't I don't think uh at the end of
the day um you the US or China are
comfortable with the fact that Taiwan
controls or or manipulize uh such a
critical uh sector in the uh in the tax
space. So that's why I think
increasingly there is the risk that this
crucial sector that for so crucial for
Taiwan uh will face the risk of being
hollowed out but but that's a kind of
longer term story. uh in the near term I
guess investors have to participate in
the boom
h
>> how should investors deal with
concentration risk right I know you
favor Taiwan you still favor Korea over
Taiwan as well but you know when we've
seen days in Korea where you know 5%
losses in the Cosby is almost like an is
is normal now even 5% gains is uh the
volatility is certainly something that
creates quite a bit of whipsaw how can
investors still deal with that do you
think that's you know the concentration
risk side of things.
>> Oh, absolutely. I think I think for um
for EM investors, the concentration risk
has never been this high, right? So, you
know, all the pretty much all the gains
uh have been driven by these three
names. Um so, uh this is this is a
really unique challenge. So, the way
that we we try to deal with that is you
know we play the boom uh we try to
participate in the tax space. But on the
other hand, as I said earlier, I also
want to have exposure to the other side
of the uh the AI boom, which is
material. Uh you know, the the gains are
a lot less so far at least. So we we
think um even we have some kind of
shakeout in the tax sector in the one
one hand of the the barbell then the
other side um if the investment boom is
in is real then um the other side will
face less uh downside.
>> Yeah. And I suppose the other thing
about what we're seeing in the AI
investment boom is also how it's perhaps
affecting productivity on the mainland.
and there is a deferring impact whether
you're talking about consumers versus
producers. What are you seeing? What's
your assessment on that? And how does
that fit into the thesis for investing?
>> Yeah. So I I I think I think the
productivity story is mostly uh more
positive on the currency on the R&B on
the Chinese exchange rate. Um because
um if you think about it really only the
US and China they are having very rapid
productivity growth you know among all
the major economies right so only the US
and China they have m they have very
profound productivity growth but the US
uh most of the productivity growth has
kind of benefited uh uh uh producers
they have created this kind of producer
surplus in the form of corporate profits
but in China because competition is so
intense. So then that basically uh this
productivity gain mainly benefited
consumers in the form of consumer
surplus. So the form of you know the in
the in the economy what can be reflected
uh is aggra falling prices. So that's
why we see uh Chinese uh uh uh
deflation. I don't think China has a
sustained inflationary uh um trend even
though you know headline inflation has
been trending higher in the past couple
of months but I don't think China is out
of this kind of disinflationary tendency
yet. So the end result is just the
current the Chinese currency is becoming
increasingly cheaper and cheaper because
of this intense competition on top of
very rapid productivity growth. So for
me, I think the long-term case for the
R&B is very strong. As long as we have
this kind of productivity growth that
has that is benefiting consumers more
than producers, the currency just feel
increasingly uh cheap and then um we
have a much stronger case for the R&B to
to really appreciate uh in the
multi-year uh uh horizon.
>> You have a four handle. Can you can you
walk me through how plausible that is?
What would it take to get to rem at
four? I mean, it seems like that could
pressure exporters quite a bit.
>> Yeah. Well, but I my case is uh likely
the R&B will trade with a four handle.
Uh so maybe from here maybe 20 30% from
the current level. I don't think that's
a very aggressive forecast. If we talk
about let's say multi-year horizon,
right? you you know think about the
Chinese currency appreciated by sub by
almost 50% in real terms between 2005
and 2015
uh right so I don't think um the a
multi-year uh uh uh process of 25 to 30%
appreciation is such a massive problem
for Chinese exporters because there is
very rapid productivity growth in the
Chinese manufacturing space right so you
I I think uh we we can feel uh the
second wave of the Chinese we can say
the second uh uh wave of China shock. Uh
in the first wave of China shock between
2002 and um maybe the end of 20 around
2012 then China massively gained global
market share but those are in the more
cheaper uh um lower end of consumer
products. Now uh China is moving up the
value chain. This is the second wave. So
I expect the second wave will bring uh
substantial uh appreciation of to the
R&B in a similar fashion to this first
wave that we saw a decade ago.
>> Yeah, and that's a super interesting
call this higher value added China wave
that might be coming and maybe we see
Yen at the forehandle. Thank you so much
for your time and your analysis. Yen
Wong, chief EM and China strategist at
Alpine Macro. Here's a look at how Asian
markets are doing as we go to break.
This is Bloomberg.
We're seeing a read through in Japan as
far as Lenovo earnings are concerned
after the PC maker showed that strong
driver of server demand is really
boosting earnings here and you're seeing
that in AI integrated PCs as a sector.
The tailwind is quite obvious for
Japanese AI server related stocks
including Taio Uden tech component
makers. They're climbing by the double
digits in Japan today. will be watching
Lenovo shares when they reopen on
Tuesday after Friday saw a 26-year
closing high. That's after a reported
strong growth in AI related earnings,
offsetting some of these challenges from
rising component prices. CFO Winston
Ching told us the world's leading PC
maker remains committed to meeting
customer demand in the coming AIdriven
decade.
>> Certainly, we're not defined by one
quarter. We're we're in for the long
haul. And the AI spend and opportunity
is also for decades to come. But we're
defining this as the AI decade for
Lenovo. And I think we're in the first
year of that journey. And you can see
the result of that focus. In terms of
our capabilities, we've actually been
investing in this for over 10 years. Our
ability to be able to produce in at
scale on a global basis for both on the
device side and also the infrastructure
side is unique to Lenovo. We can serve
hyperscalers and also enterprises on
that basis as well. and our portfolio
set with the IBM heritage that when we b
made the acquisition 2015 gives us a
solid foundation to be able to serve the
AI compute capabilities today given the
high performance compute genetics that
we have with our industry liquid cooling
technology as well
>> Winston what is the truth of what's
happening with memory how severe is that
as a bottleneck
>> well certainly this incredible spend and
development of AI uh in terms of the AI
infrastructure is really driving the
component shortages, not only memory,
but you're also hearing it in terms of
uh CPU and and of course GPU demand as
well. I think that would be multi-year
uh uh opportunity in terms of that
demand. But at the same time, the
industry needs to catch up in terms of
that supply chain to satisfy that
demand. But I think uh for now that's
causing the the supply and demand
imbalance is causing the memory prices
to go up. But on the AI infrastructure
side, we're able to pass through that
demand because that's where the strong
demand is uh in terms of the pricing for
pass through. But on the device side, I
think uh the lower end, you're starting
to see uh in terms of the first quarter
IDC numbers that the uh those that
cannot get supply, I think have seen
their market shares decline.
>> So Winston, what you just outlined and
bear with me on this one, how much are
you negotiating with yourself? You have
different business lines. They both need
common components, high bandwidth
memory. You know that on the
infrastructure side, the server side,
that's where the demand is. So, do you
have to have a word with yourself and
say, well, what about my PC business? Do
you have to make a choice of where you
prioritize?
>> That that's a great question in terms of
But I think what the suppliers
appreciate with us is that we have that
global portfolio. We have the most
complete portfolio from PC to tablet to
smartphone and I think that gives them
the forecast necessary as our long-term
partners. We also have that demand
forecast from the server side as well of
our business. So from that perspective,
we are strategic partners for suppliers
as well in terms of that accuracy of
that forecast. We need to supply in
terms of satisfying our long Lenovo
long-term Lenovo friends in terms of the
ThinkPad which is so well loved in the
market and I think we need to make sure
that there's enough supply going to that
demand as well.
Lenovo CFO Winston Cheng speaking to
Bloomberg Tech co-anchor Ed Lello.
Here's another look at how Asian markets
are doing as we head to break. Mostly
positive though a lot of these markets
of course are shot for a holiday. This
is Boom Dog.
Welcome back. Here are some of the major
stories we're following from around the
world. The cause of an explosion at a
mine in China's Shang Xi province is
under investigation after the Friday
blast killed at least 82 people. The
accident has triggered a vast rescue
operation involving hundreds of
emergency workers and an intervention
from President Xi Jinping and senior
officials. State media says that early
investigations suggest serious
violations at the privately run mine. US
health authorities are planning to
temporarily bar green card holders from
re-entering the country if they travel
recently to Ebola affected areas. Now,
the interim rule will remain in place
for 6 months or until Health Secretary
Robert F. Kennedy Jr. determines it's no
longer needed. Authorities in the
Democratic Republic of Congo have
reported 867 suspected cases and 204
probable deaths. As of Friday,
foreigners seeking permanent residency
in the US will now have to leave the
country to apply for green cards, except
in extraordinary circumstances. The
policy could leave applicants stranded
for extended periods and disrupt
families and companies sponsoring
foreign workers. Immigration lawyers say
the move is legally questionable and
needlessly chaotic and warn litigation
is likely.
Yeah, Ivon, as we watch policy out of
the US, I think one thing investors are
still keeping tabs on is the deal that
we're potentially going to get on Iran.
At least based on what some of these US
officials have been telegraphing.
Although if you're listening to what
Iranian media is projecting, they sound
a bit more circumspect about the
chances, the prospects of a deal. There
are still these sticking points,
especially when it comes to uranium and
nuclear assets, sanctions as well. They
want the unfreezing of their assets
there. In Iran, you're still seeing
though in terms of stock futures,
they're brushing aside these
geopolitical concerns for the moment at
least. is really about AI. You're seeing
NASDAQ 100 futures also outpacing the
broader gauge futures. Take a look at
what we're seeing in Treasury markets.
Of course, US, UK, Hong Kong, South
Korea markets are shot on Monday. In
terms of futures, you are seeing the
short end, the front end pointing to
more declines of uh more gains I should
say, a bit different from what you're
seeing on the longer end. So maybe on
the long end their price for further
upside as far as treasuries are
concerned. Of course this week we're
also watching out for data when it comes
to the Fed's preferred topline inflation
gauge. You also have a number of central
bank decisions coming from South Korea
as well as New Zealand. And then those
inflation readings coming from uh
Australia as well as in Tokyo. We've got
our own version of that coming out of
Singapore this afternoon at the time
where the growth has showed the AI boom
helping to offset some of these war
concerns. This is Bloomberg.
All right, we're taking a look at Tokyo
here. 11:29 a.m. approaching there in
Japan. And certainly there will be
seeing plenty of optimism around this
whole uh tech trade AI trade here today.
You're still seeing records that have
been hit on both the nicay and the
topics here this morning. We're up close
to 3% gains for the nicay. So certainly
plenty of spotlight around the Tokyo
situation. Taiwan continues to be hot
here today and really I think just
giving them a chance to shine when Korea
has been shut as well. 158 levels for
the Japanese yen. So we have seen the
dollar on the softer footing here on the
back of that Iran news. Oil prices are
also uh lower here this morning as well.
So that's why you're seeing a bit of
relief in the JB market as well. April.
>> Yeah. Uh watching what this means for
treasuries of course when US markets
reopen and we are seeing those treasury
futures rallying. Take a look at how the
rest of Asia is fairing. Energy is on
the back foot. Tech is on the front foot
as investors continue searching for
these so-called AI bottlenecks. That's
really what's been fueling this rally
even in the absence of South Korea
market participation today as you said
really Japan is the one that is
extending those gains and actually it
was interesting even on Friday how
Japan's gains already outpac that of
South Korea but keeping tabs as well on
what's happening between the US and Iran
Ivonne
>> yeah let's get to the latest on that
senior US officials say the US and Iran
are closing in on a deal that would
reopen the straight of hormuz, but it
may take several days for both sides to
get final approval. In truth, social
posts, President Trump says the US won't
rush into a deal and reiterates that
Tyrron will not be allowed to have a
nuclear weapon. Let's bring in
Bloomberg's John Herzkovich. Uh, it
seems like we've been here before, John,
but you know, it seems like we're
getting close to some sort of deal being
inked. Uh, how possible do you think
that could be this week?
>> Sure. As you said, we've been here
before. the it seems that we're closer
to an interim deal than we may have been
previously. Markets have seen this as a
positive, but we've been down this road
before. This the uh terms of this deal
are along the lines of what we've seen
in similar agreements. What we're
looking at is a 60-day extension of the
ceasefire. Um Iran relinquishing its
supply of highlyenriched uranium. Um the
US Iran reopening the trade of Hormuz.
The US ending its blockade. Iran asking
for sanctions relief. Whether that will
come or not is another matter. So, you
know, it's um it seems a little bit
closer, but the main sticking points
have remained. And one of the key issues
of this is what will happen with Iran's
supply of highlyenriched uranium and
whether it can reconstitute its nuclear
program and its ballistic missile
program.
And what do we know of how quickly
traffic can resume through the straight
if there is indeed an interim deal?
>> Yeah, I um it's going to be difficult to
to see how that is going to work out cuz
we have that bottleneck. Ships have been
trying to get out for months now. We've
seen the trickle. It's getting a little
bit a few more ships are getting
through, but um it may take weeks or
several months for this for the shipping
to resume. We have the worries of mines
in the straight, which is something that
has to be cleared up for the resumption
of normal shipping. So, it's like it's
not like the flip will be switched and
ships are going to start moving, but we
could see a gradual movement that could
take weeks or months to unwind if there
was a deal that to reopen the straight
of Hormuz.
>> John, thank you so much. Bloomberg's
John Husk in Tokyo for us. Meanwhile,
Indonesia says global markets and major
trading partners can expect updates on
new commodity export policies within
weeks. President Pabo Sububanto last
week announced the government would take
direct control of exports of some of
Indonesia's most important commodities.
His vice trade minister told us the
government continues to work on the
legal and structural roll out of its new
centralized export agency.
This export body is aimed to again
protect our national interests. uh we
understand that there are many major
commodities that we are currently
exporting and really just understanding
how the export of these commodities can
have a positive multiplier effect to our
nation. Right? So it's limitizing all
the negative things which may occur. Um
and and that really is the gist of of
this body and again because this is very
new uh it's still under progress right
in terms of the legislation in terms of
the uh the building up of the body
itself and so we are going to see how
this progresses over the next few weeks
to come as well.
>> It's quite a daunting task isn't it? All
of a sudden, overnight, we're hearing
that uh an agency, a new agency under
the sovereign wealth fund of Danara is
going to be now mandating all that data
to come into their data banks and then
they're going to also try and get a hold
of pricing. Um,
>> right? Because again, you're the biggest
exporter of palm oil. Um, and you're
having others set the pricing. That is
the concern obviously, but how daunting
of a task is this? Well, I think uh in
many ways it will require a lot of
collaboration. Um you know, everybody
has their own task to fulfill including
that of the ministry of trade. So the
ministry of trade will be responsible
for enacting a governmental uh
regulation which will then regulate uh
the export component whereas Dantara as
you already mentioned has their own kind
of uh expertise and uh portion to this
whole mechanism and I think the most
important thing and this is something
that my president is always stressing on
is the fact that you know uh we need as
a government we need to work together uh
side by side uh bearing in mind the
responsibilities that we we each have.
And so it becomes less daunting when you
know that you're not in it alone. You're
not doing it alone. You're working
together to create something that we
believe would have uh good impact to our
nation.
>> How do you see it affecting potential
exports to places like China? As I said,
they are the a big buyer of nickel pig
iron for their lower quality uh
stainless steel. they buy a lot of your
palm oil. Uh do you see it impacting
because of the uncertainty and the
timelines have not been necessarily um
laid out?
>> I think the impact would be the
immediate impact would be to firstly
understand the mechanisms that will be
in place. Again, this is still under
works. uh and so um we are sure to
communicate uh these step by-step
process to the relevant uh you know um
to to the relevant companies
stakeholders and so forth. Uh and again
because this is a change to the system
uh we we're we're sure to uh disseminate
this information in the me in the most
effective manner. And then deadlines.
That's another thing I think the markets
were a little bit concerned about. Uh as
of June 1st, which is coming very soon,
next week um that you these exporters
would need to supply the data to this
newly formed uh entity. And then we had
competing
uh um comments about
>> the actual scheme would begin as early
as September or even January. Do you
have any or clarity for us as far as
what has been communicated to you? So
right now the respective uh ministries
are you know taking their part in
creating the necessary domestic
regulations to ensure that this body uh
can be you know can run uh according to
plan. That's one aspect and the second
aspect that we will be pushing going
forward is the the dissemination of
information with respect to this body
itself and what that would mean to
stakeholders.
And that was the Indonesian vice trade
minister Dia Rooro Estuya speaking to us
at the APEC meeting in Sujo, China. Uh
we're checking some of these Indonesian
movers here today. So Footsie Russell
came out with an announcement about
removing four Indonesian equities. So
including the likes of the energy giant
Dian Swasatika Sentosa from its global
indices. You're seeing quite a bit
decline there as well. That's the second
one that's been uh touted there or they
mentioned there as well as one of four
stocks that have been removed. Now this
is of course following that regulatory
crackdown by uh the index index provider
targeting companies with high
shareholding concentration that did fail
to maintain minimum free float
requirements. So there you go. Uh you
are seeing some pretty big declines
there on some of these stocks here this
morning. Of course, you can rewatch that
on the Bloomberg video hub that
interviews. Subscribers can explore live
streaming news and interviews. All our
Bloomberg TV shows, documentaries,
reporter analysis, and more. Check it
out at bloomberg.com/videos.
Taking a look at some of these AI and
computing stocks on the mainland. It's
pretty mixed for the moment, but you are
seeing a bit of gains in the likes of
Highg against the backdrop of perhaps
developers uh rejoicing somewhat from
the benefits of Deepseek. They're going
to make these steep discounts. What 75%
discount on the flagship V4 Pro AI
model? That's going to be permanent. So
maybe we're seeing a bit of that read
through at a time where when it comes to
the domestic chipm capabilities, take a
look at how chip stocks on the mainland
are fairing. SMIC Huahong certainly in
the spotlight today and almost climbing
10% on each of these stocks at the time
where uh Huawei has been touting that
maybe they're making a bit of a
breakthrough to shorten the gap with
TSMC. And certainly this would help to
remove the overhang when it comes to
ASML and lithography. So maybe that's
the market reaction we're seeing overall
at the time where markets are looking
for the next AI bottleneck so to speak.
Ivonne.
>> Yeah. So there's plenty of good news,
right? You mentioned the the Huawei
story and then you know the Deep Seek
and those steep discounts that have
basically been made permanent. Now let's
get more on this with our Bloomberg
opinion columnist Katherine Thorbeck. Um
the deepseek news was quite interesting
obviously you know I think as a
developer it's certainly better bang for
each intelligence buck uh in some ways
and it really shows the different
approaches that the US and China you
know are are going through in this whole
AI wave when you know you're talking
about open AI anthropic that you know
those are offerings that are actually
still quite expensive right now.
>> That's right. And you know, I think this
news is really going to start sort of
begging the obvious question among sort
of developers and enterprises really
around the world of why should I be
paying so much money for the likes of
anthropic or open AI uh you know when I
can get sort of just as good AI for so
so much cheaper and so I think it's in
one sense sort of a wakeup call for
Silicon Valley this this sort of
permanent pricing model but at the same
time I think this is also a little bit
of a threat to sort of the domestic
Chinese AI ecosystem in the sense that
it's going to be very very hard for
Deepseek's competitors to now sort of
raise prices and sort of keep the
competition going and and really find a
way to uh sort of turn a profit which
has been uh really a struggle for the
model makers in China for for a while
now.
>> So maybe a threat as you say for the
domestic Chinese uh ecosystem for AI but
what about the effect on the labor
market? I mean this is really a global
story. It's not just something that is
raising concern in China, right? What
are you seeing there?
>> Yes. So, this has been something that
I've been really keeping a very close
eye on. You know, we saw the news of the
Samsung strike last week, which I think
was really interesting because it was
really the first major labor action from
the AI era. And the way I saw it was it
was really a fight between sort of the
have and have you know there's sort of a
joke going around the Korean internet
that um you know the the sort of best
outfit you can wear on a first date or
on a blind date is an SKH heinix vest
because you know these chipmakers have
really made just so much money um over
the past few years because of this big
boom. Um, but I do think that in the
long run, what will be more interesting
to watch is how workers that are
displaced by AI actually sort of rise up
and organize and and how they sort of
seek their own share of sort of this AI
boom that we're seeing.
>> Yeah. And and really how companies need
to approach it. I think you know the
Stan chart Bill Winter's comments
certainly did also uh bring a lot of
that discussion as well last week. Um,
tell us a bit more about just where we
are in the AI race in general. Your
column today, Katherine, talks about how
perhaps Japan is falling behind a bit.
>> That's right. So, I think if you look at
sort of just the broader adoption
numbers, Japan is sort of lagging global
peers when it comes to using AI and and
sort of integrating AI into enterprises.
But I really think Japan is a country to
watch because when you really look at
sort of the upsides of this technology,
I mean, Japan is just there's so many
opportunities for it to actually do
good. And I think we're seeing so much
sort of AI backlash really sort of
rising in the US, which has been
something that's interesting to watch.
But in Japan, you know, it's a very
tight labor market. You know, the labor
market is actually shrinking. So the,
you know, policy makers, business
leaders, they actually kind of need AI
to sort of fill these jobs. And so
that's something that I think we'll I'll
be really keeping an eye on. And I think
that this sort of second mover advantage
that Japan has could actually really be
uh sort of a big advantage in the long
run. you know, they can sort of see
what's going right elsewhere, see what's
going wrong, and sort of learn from that
as they sort of actually push now to
integrate AI into sort of more facets of
society and and we're finally starting
to see sort of the diffusion numbers
start to tick up in Japan. So, I'm
really keeping a close eye on that.
>> Yeah, I guess AI could help solve
Japan's demographic problem, but these
are investments that pay off maybe
decades into the future. I mean that
seems to be the horizon that the likes
of SoftBang is telegraphing when it
comes to you know this race and how long
it is. Is this a
I guess a time where we we wait decades
into the future for that payoff?
>> Absolutely. You know I think when you
look at any sort of past general purpose
technology revolution, it really did
take decades. It didn't matter sort of
if you sprinted at the beginning. really
mattered if you did sort of the marathon
work of really diffusing this technology
into, you know, as deep and as many
facets of the economy as possible. And I
think that's where Japan really, if it
sort of jumps on this opportunity, has
has a real chance to sort of get this
right and and really sort of seize this
sort of second mover advantage.
>> Katherine, thank you so much. That was
Bloomber opinion columnist Katherine
Thorbeck. You can catch uh latest piece
from Katherine and all of her other
columns as well that's on the terminal.
Those are also available on
bloomberg.com. Plenty more ahead. This
is Bloomberg.
Here
are some of the stories we're following.
US Secret Service agents say they shot a
man near the White House on Saturday
after he opened fire with a handgun.
Authorities identified the suspect as a
21-year-old who had a prior arrest for
unlawful entry near the White House in
July 2025. He was taken to hospital
where he later died.
US Secretary of State Marco Rubio says
the US and India are strategically
aligned on energy. He was speaking in
New Delhi alongside Indian foreign
minister Estra Shanka. Rubio met with
Narendra Modi on Saturday as he began a
4-day visit inviting the Indian Prime
Minister to the White House as the two
sides work to improve ties.
>> We also are strategically aligned on
energy. You know, energy is and the
ability to generate power is the key
behind all of the great industries out
there. you whether it's data centers,
whether it's artificial intelligence,
whether it's the ability to modernize
and continue to advance economically,
all of it begins and ends with the
ability to generate the power necessary
not just to raise standards of living,
but beyond that to expand into into new
industries. And both of our countries
are strategically aligned and ensuring
that we have a world that can not just
produce but deliver the energy resources
that are necessary to power a modern
economy. We strongly believe that energy
markets should be left uh uh you know to
to the market.
>> Well, Taiwan's representative to the US
says China is expanding its military
pressure across the Indo-Pacific region.
Alexander Yu told us that the
self-governed island is ready to defend
itself and that the US has reaffirmed
there has been no change in its policy.
The US administration has been very
emphatic uh you know during and after
the trip for President Trump to Beijing
including President Trump himself
mentioned that there is no change in US
policy towards Taiwan and so so that's
that's in itself it's a real reassurance
to Taiwan but at the same time um we are
ready to defend ourselves uh you know
we're trying to beef up our own
defensive capabilities
uh and United States has been our
primary provider of armed sales to
Taiwan and uh we we hope that to
continue to do so in facing this
mounting and growing aggression from
mainland China. No doubt you heard the
president talk about that $14 billion
arms package as a bargaining chip. And I
wonder what your reaction to that is,
bearing in mind what you just said that
you've uh gotten votes of confidence
from from the administration as you say.
Um what do you what should we make of of
the president saying it's something that
could be deployed as a bargaining chip?
>> Well, uh we'll all respect President
Trump's decision. He uh also said and
administration mentioned just yesterday
that a decision will be made by the
president uh anytime soon. Uh we
obviously we hope that it will be a
positive one. Uh but uh again uh the
important thing is there's no change in
US policy towards Taiwan and that
includes you know long-standing arm
sales uh to to to Taiwan and especially
com measured with the threat level that
Taiwan is receiving and the threat level
we're receiving from mail in China right
now is very very high. I understand that
there's no official change in policy,
but it does seem that there's a a change
in energy and the voseiferous nature by
which previous presidents have defended
Taiwan to the Chinese and the kind of
lukewarm defense, if that even was the
defense the president delivered in
Beijing. Do you feel like he delivered a
strong enough message in those meetings
with the Chinese leader?
Well, um,
Xiinping, from what we know, Xiinping
mentioned Taiwan a lot during his two
days trip in, uh, Beijing. Uh, he wanted
to make it the the topic of discussion,
although there are many many things that
should have been it was on the table.
Uh, but, uh, and he he talked about
Chinese version of the Taiwan so-called
problem. And and I I stress that Taiwan
were not the problem. The problem is
mainland China. who they're the ones
they're the aggressors. They're the ones
ramping all this military pressure on
not just Taiwan but uh throughout the
Indo Pacific including Japan, the
Philippines, etc. So their ambitions go
way beyond Taiwan. You know, they
they're are they are engaging in this
very massive military buildup and it's
just not for Taiwan. It's it's trying to
impose their influence not only in the
Pacific but beyond it in in the Pacific.
So uh we are well aware of China's uh uh
uh intentions to try to swallow Taiwan.
Again, we want to stress that uh Taiwan,
the Republic of China, the official name
of of my country. We are not uh
subjected to the Chinese administration
or or control the people's republic of
China. I've never been controlling never
controlled Taiwan. Um, so the claim on
Taiwan is is something that is uh, you
know, it's a bogus claim and but they
they have this intention and we'll do
whatever it takes to defend it.
>> Taiwan's representative to the US,
Alexander UI, speaking with Bloomberg's
David Gur and Christina Rafini. Let's
take a look at how markets are fairing
on the mainland. You're seeing the CSI
300 well in the green headed for a
second day of gains and there are
volumes behind this. I guess this also
reflects that positive mood we're seeing
in much of the region. A lot of this is
AI related thanks to deep sync to some
extent but also the headway that the
likes of Huawei seems to be making on
the chipm front. Ivon.
>> Yeah. Uh so there's still some I guess
you could say milestones, technological
breakthroughs that really uh does narrow
the gap uh the Huawei suggested with
this new nanometer 1.4 nanometer chip uh
with TSMC. So certainly that's lifting a
lot of the chip space here. Uh of course
we we've been tracking what's going on
the Iran situation. Is there now a clear
path uh when it comes to the long end of
bonds here now that we are inching
closer to maybe some sort of deal to
reopen the straight of Hormuz. So it
could be a you know a welcome relief but
I we were just talking to Brandy Wine
saying there's other drivers that's
driving the selloff here real rates are
heading higher because what we're seeing
with rising debt levels this whole AI
boom itself as well. We're going to
watch of course the India open here
today April as we track of course what's
been going on with the rupee and of
course what we've heard from some of the
messaging from the central bank as well.
Yeah, seemingly sounding like they think
the rupee is undervalued. These comments
from the RBI governor at the time where
Indian authorities have really been
trying to pull out all the stops to help
defend the local currency. For the
moment though, you're seeing stock
futures pointing to gains this Monday.
We'll see how that fares when trading
there begins. Inside Linda Amen is next.
This is Bloomberg.